# We the People Round 2 Visualization

#### Installation

* Run `pnpm install` or `npm install` to install dependencies

## Update Data

Two CSV files are required to build this visualization.

* `opinions.csv` \- must contain the columns topic, opinion, count, gid. The gid column should contain the gids for the sheet containing the rest of the quotes belonging to that opinion.  
* `quotes.csv` \- must contain the columns topic, opinion, and quote.

Download these files and add them to `./src/data/`

run `node tasks/csv-to-json.js` to convert the csv files to json.

## Get Icon URIs

Place svg icons for the topics in `./static/icons/` and run `node tasks/convert-icons` to convert them to base64 URIs.

## Set Variables

Update `googleSheetsLink` in `src/data/variables.json` with the url to the google sheet containing all quotes that should be accessible to participants. Be sure the url ends in /edit?gid=

Set the desired order in which topics should appear in the `categoryOrder` array.

Use the `colors` and `colorsLight` arrays to set the colors for each topic. Currently these are all paired – i.e., the first element in the colors array is a dark blue and the first element in the colorsLight array is the light blue it is used in conjunction with.

Replace the data uris in the `topicImages` array in `src/data/variables.json` with the data uris generated by the `convert-icons` script using either the console output or the values from `static/icons/data-uri-output.json`.

## Styling

Existing global survey styling from Qualtrics can be placed in `src/styles/global.css` in order to see how it might affect the design of the visualizations. These are not exported with `npm run create-qualtrics` and are just included to check if global styling might affect the visualization.

CSS needed for the visualizations are in `src/styles/app.css`. Running `npm run create-qualtrics` will create a css file in /qualtrics/style.css. This CSS should be appended to the global css in Qualtrics.

## Deployment to Qualtrics

Run npm run dev to start the development server and confirm that everything is working as expected.

Run node tasks/create-qualtrics in order to generate the set of files needed to implement the visualization in Qualtrics.

Paste the contents of index.html into the question using the HTML/source view in the rich text editor.

Paste the contents of index.js into question javascript.

Paste the contents of style.css at the end of the global css input, being careful to leave the global css in place and only overwrite css for the visual.